This morning, I thought we’d talk
about why we love Jehovah so much.
Now, obviously, there are
basic fundamental reasons why we love him.
Let’s turn to Acts chapter 17,
and we’ll just mention
the A part of the verse
as to why we love him.
Verse 28 of Acts chapter 17:
“For by him we have life
and move and exist.”
So we love him because we love life.
We’re grateful that we’re able to move
and that we exist.
And when you think about it,
this beautiful earth that Jehovah created
continues to sustain humans
with food and water.
So it’s just fundamental.
We love him for all these things.
But, really, why we love him so much
gets much more personal
than just these things
that keep us in existence.
When Jehovah is like a loving Father to us
and when he’s real
and when we feel confident he’s listening
to our personal, private prayers
—that strengthens us to continue on
and to endure.
Now, it’s the case with some of God’s people,
including some raised around the truth,
that they didn’t have a loving human father
during their childhood.
The reasons and details
as to why a father wouldn’t love
his own child
are numerous but never justified.
Now, the evidence is often
that people that suffer
from having experienced
this lack of love,
sadly, grow up with being filled
with negative thinking.
They can become consumed
with negative thinking,
and then their life becomes
like a roller coaster of emotions,
and they find it very difficult
to face each day.
Well, the good news is
that this negative thinking,
for those that worship Jehovah and love him,
can often be eliminated or, certainly,
at least held at bay
because we have this close
personal relationship with Jehovah God.
Jehovah has drawn us to him.
We thank him for that; it was undeserved.
But there’s more
to why we love him so much.
And a verse that we find
in our publications often
is in Psalm 34.
So let’s take a look at Psalm 34.
Most of us are very familiar with this verse,
but let’s think about it—verse 18:
“Jehovah is close to the brokenhearted;
he saves those who are crushed in spirit.”
Now, we love this verse,
especially if we went through difficulties
or, as I mentioned,
didn’t have a father that displayed love.
That can break a heart,
and the individual can feel
crushed in spirit, totally discouraged,
unable to face basic things in life.
Now, to illustrate that,
I thought I’d just show you
this beautiful crystal, here,
of two birds.
Isn’t that a beautiful piece?
And I’m being careful
because it’s really my wife’s.
You know how it is.
What’s mine is hers,
and what’s hers is hers.
No, I’m just teasing.
It is absolutely adorable,
these two birds in this crystal.
Now, if you were to take a hammer,
a large hammer,
and smash it,
that’s the idea of crushed
—“crushed in spirit.”
See, you start to get the feeling
for what some of us have experienced
—crushed in spirit.
And the reason we love Jehovah so much
is that he actually has the power,
and because of his love,
he can put the pieces back together
so that we can go on and continue to love him
and worship him for eternity.
He’s just a wonderful Creator,
our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
It’s why we love him so much,
and he’s the only one that can do that.
Some other human that loves you
can’t really put the pieces back together.
They can be consoling, and should be,
but Jehovah can put us back together.
Now, to further help us appreciate
why we love him so much,
notice Isaiah chapter 49.
I’ve always appreciated the verse here,
and on occasion, I’ve used it
with shepherding someone
struggling from various issues
related to the way they grew up
or were mistreated.
In Isaiah chapter 49,
and notice here at verse 15,
Jehovah says:
“Can a woman forget her nursing child
“or have no compassion
for the son of her womb?
“Even if these women forget,
I would never forget you.”
So let’s just think about this.
The question’s raised:
Can a woman, or mother, of a nursing child,
forget them?
Well, the news indicates
they continue to do that.
It’s just heartbreaking to hear
about a mother
who left her child in a car on a hot day,
and then the child dies.
Often, they are of nursing age.
So it can happen.
It does happen.
However, most of the time
(that’s why Jehovah uses this comparison),
a mother is just an amazing part
of a child’s life.
Just to illustrate, when my sons were young
(both of them because they’re
about a year and a half apart,
so one was an infant, and the other was
about a year and a half or thereabouts),
and at the time we lived
in a second floor apartment,
and next to us was a train track.
So it wasn’t that there were always
trains going by,
but this certain fast train
coming from New York
to Providence, Rhode Island,
would just come by late at night,
early in the morning, predawn,
and the house would vibrate.
That’s how close we were to the track.
But the rent was good,
and it helped
with being able to make ends meet.
Well, that would wake me up every time.
And I’d hear that
—the train and the house vibrating.
However, my wife, Susan,
would sleep right through it.
It didn’t bother her.
The train went by, and I look over
and like: ‘Boy, if I could do that.’
You know?
However, whenever one of our sons cried out,
I don’t care what hour it was,
she shot out of that bed and was over there.
And I’m trying to come to
as to why she moved.
But that’s the love of a mother
that Jehovah is emphasizing here.
Anyone that thinks about that
(and that always deeply impressed me
that this is what Jehovah is talking about
with mothers)
—how they love their children—
it’s just very touching.
I’ve never, never forgotten it.
And anyone that had a mother like that
should be very grateful to them.
If you haven’t thanked them lately,
it would be a good idea to do so.
Now, the reason we love Jehovah so much
when considering this verse
is because Jehovah is comparing
the tender love of a mother
to his love.
And he makes the point because obviously
it happened down through history;
these women can forget.
Some can become that selfish
and other reasons
and forget their nursing child.
But Jehovah will never forget you.
He’ll never forget me.
So frankly, regardless of our past,
whether it was a good upbringing or not,
we can exhibit joy
because we love Jehovah so much.